#Kristen Gutierrez-Conroy
##Michigan State University-College of Law

When researching my recent series: 2010/11 nibi anishinabe kwewag ~ Water and the Original People's Women, Kristen Gutierrez-Conroy sent me this email: 

> First, I want to tell you that it was a happy accident that I stumbled upon your work and I greatly appreciate your ability to invoke an emotional visual expression of such intangible, and often difficult to articulate relationships; particularly that of women and the water.  I am currently a third-year law student at Michigan State University-- College of Law and am quickly coming to the end of the semester. I am writing to request permission to use some of your images in a presentation I will be giving to my class in my Advanced Topics in Indian Law: Native American Natural Resource Law as well as for a poster presentation for a course: Gender Justice and Environmental Change (which is a core-class for a Master's specialization in the same topic).

> My final project for the class focuses on the need for Great Lakes managers to include Anishinaabe women in decision-making leadership roles as a necessary aspect of participatory co-management schemes managing agencies purport to value and implement.  I'm arguing this because of the special generational knowledge about aquatic ecosystem health and wise-use (which current managing structures are also threatening in addition to failing to adequately protect our waters) is particularly salient and far superior to mere quantitative science-based approaches currently used. 

> I eschew the voyeuristic approach used by many academics which typically involves taking pictures of "authentic Natives" and while searching for an alternative, I came across your work. Your 2010 ANISHINABE KWEWAG  * Water ~ First Nations Women gallery expresses many of the same arguments I attempt to make but is able to touch the heart and mind in a way my words cannot and I would greatly appreciate permission to use some of the images for a limited academic purpose.  My assignment is due on Dec. 4th, and I apologize for not providing you with much time to consider..

For her presentation in Advanced Topics in Indian Law: Native American Natural Resource Law as well as for a poster presentation for a course: Gender Justice and Environmental Change a core-class for a Master's specialization in the same topic, this poster places new ideas among old, from the Original Knowledges of respect.

[Kristen Gutierrez-Conroy's Poster Presentation](/pdf/Student Studies - K.Gutierrez-Conryoy-Presentation)